>> Ben Hong: I've talked for a little bit
and now it's time for you to go ahead and
get some practice in.
So, what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna go ahead and
push up the branch that I just did.
That'll be 01-begin.
And then I'll do a branch
right now called 01 exercise.
So that'll basically pick up
where we just left off, but
that way you'll have kind of the Latest
check out 01 branch exercise for later.
And so the goal here for this particular
exercise is you're going to be then.
So text area is actually
in this particular app,
used a little bit more than text input,
surprisingly.
And so I want you to go ahead and
take what we've learned so far and
to create a base text area component where
we apply basically the things that we
learned about as far as like wrapping the
component in a vendor wrapper component.
You're going to go ahead and make it
transparent, pass its attributes, and
just basically make it work within the app
and then refactor it as you see fit.
And then for those of you, if that is too
easy, feel free to go ahead and look at
other things that you can refactor inside
of the app regarding forms and whatnot.
How did everyone do,
did that work out okay?
All right, well, if you had any
trouble with it, no worries.
We're going to walk through it together.
All right, so when it comes to refactoring
this part, obviously first thing we're
going to do is just kind of see
where the text areas are being used.
So, we can see that we have
them using three areas.
So I'm just going to pull from
the task form modal to start.
And if we analyze this DOM element,
we can see here that besides the text area
itself, similarly to the import
that we saw earlier, the input
that we worked with earlier, we had
a label here and we got a form control.
So I think we have a good
place to get started then.
So I'll go ahead and
actually just copy this to start and
then we're going to go ahead and
create a new base text area component.
And so some of you actually may have
noticed that I'm prefacing all of these
sort of wrapper components,
especially when they're wrapping
DOM elements with base.
You can also preface it with
your company's two letters of
your company's name or whatnot, but it's
generally recommended to do so because you
don't want to conflict directly with
any sort of native DOM implementations.
And so the general convention
is that not to use single
word component names just to avoid
those sort of future collisions.
There's a couple of times review does
it natively, but again, they're paying
attention to the spec at a level that most
of us probably aren't paying attention to.
So it's just one of those things that
you'll see that I do as a best practice
to avoid that happening.
All right, so we got here,
boom, we have this perfect.
And then what we're going to do here is
we're going to start by just defining
the props for the basic things that we
want to control very specifically for.
So, we have things like the label require,
true.
And then we're going
to do the ID again and
this time I'll remember that I
required it, unlike last time.
So we'll make sure to have that ID and
label.
Great.
So,
we're gonna replace both
of these things with id.
And then that did not work
the way I wanted it to.
So there we go.
Now we found those.
We got the label here and then basically
it looks like the main piece we need is.
We don't need that.
We don't need to.
You know, honestly,
I would like to make the placeholder
something that is being sort of alerted to
it is something that we find to be
a good user experience for people.
So we'll make that something
that's defined as well.
And that way it's explicitly
here in the component API.
And then finally we just got to
deal with this description part,
which we've learned now we don't have
to set all that model value emit stuff.
All we got to do is say const.
Basically, in this case I can just
say model value equals define model.
And then just again,
just a sprinkling of TypeScript here.
The basically the greater than less than
symbol allows you to pass in what type
that you expect define model to be.
So you can see here now,
define model is a string.
And so now that we have that, we can go
ahead and just bind it to model value.
And then to make sure this works,
now that everything is good.
We're still missing one thing, actually.
We need to go ahead and define options.
We're going to go ahead and disable the
inherent attributes or inherit adders and
we're going to go ahead and V bind
everything else directly to the text area,
because that's the main
thing we care about.
Then from here we can go ahead and jump on
in and we can refactor this now to base
text area so
let me make sure this imported correctly.
I don't think it did.
It did, fantastic.
There's our base text area.
Although, yes, that looks right.
Okay, so
base text area is imported correctly.
Now we just need to go ahead and
seal this off.
Self closing.
We have the id, we have the V model.
We don't need the class,
we don't need the rows.
We have the placeholder.
And it looks like this one is still
erroring out because what did I forget?
I forgot the label.
And this one we're just
calling it description.
So now that should take care of that.
We don't need any of
that boilerplate anymore.
And there we go.
And so, to make sure this works, obviously
this we're currently in the task form
model, so let's go ahead and
run over to our app.
Let me make sure it's running.
Looks like it's running.
All right, so we have our tasks,
our task modal here.
There we go, deep dive into its features.
This is my new update.
Update.
Task edit.
There you go.
And it saved and updated accordingly.
So we'll just for
the sake of completing the exercise fully,
we're just going to quickly then just
do essentially a search and replace.
So we'll do base text area again.
I'll make sure the input is correct later.
I think already with that highlight,
it probably isn't disabled is good,
Placeholder is good,
class is good, id is good.
But we do want that label for there.
I usually like to put the dynamic stuff
a little particularly V model a bit,
little, little bit higher just to
let developers know that's there.
And then we don't need any of this.
So that takes care of that.
And then this is the time
entry form model.
So where that is is you'll see that your
task can also then basically track how
much time has been added.
And so, this is the time I spent
on this component and then add.
And you can see here.
There we go, we have our
description still working great.
And then finally we got one more which
is looks like the weak form modal.
So, this one we'll go ahead and
let's drop the label here first.
That's the one that seems to
be erroring out the most.
Base text area.
Delete all that stuff.
Delete, delete, self closing.
Delete div, don't need the rows,
don't need the class save.
And then I assume it imported correctly,
but we'll check.
Nope, did not this time.
Did the type.
Don't know why it does that.
It seems to be like a 5050
thing with the auto import.
Yep, that one looks good too.
So the week four model then on the other
hand is when we go to our planner and
we want to look at a week, this is where
we can add the goals for the week.
So this is my new goal update and
then it's still here.
So we're good.
Yes, we got a question.
>> Speaker 2: What is this being saved to,
like the database?
>> Ben Hong: The database, yes.
So, the way this app currently works is
there is a back-end folder that basically.
And there's a database .json, adb.json.
The way this works is it's just
a static file that's local, but
combined with this awesome open
source library called JSON Server,
it stubs out a REST API that allows you
to basically create endpoints to hit
the shape of the DB JSON and
then update it accordingly.
So it looks like that's good.
And so I'm going to go ahead and
make sure I commit this to the exercise.
Well, let's see.
Actually O1 exercise is where we started.
So I'm going to check
out now 01 solution and
then we'll go ahead and
add everything we just did.
Say refactor,
create base text area component,
And ref and place.
That's fine actually,
that should be good enough.
Okay.
>> Speaker 3: So for some reason my ID and
label are getting passed through as.
Adders, not props.
>> Ben Hong: In your base text.
>> Speaker 3: I have defined props.
>> Ben Hong: Yeah.
Okay, let's see this actually,
this is something to.
>> Speaker 3: So I don't see like,
I don't see the label printed
on page where it should be.
The id works because it's an adder and
it's kind of splatted across
the rest of the adders.
Works for you.
>> Ben Hong: So in case anyone is
not seeing their attributes show up.
So.
So we see here that the description
here is showing up.
We did a little debugging earlier and so
if you're not using script setup
right here and then I think.
I think I probably broke it, hold up.
Do, no, that should be fine, run dev.
Go, define off well.
That's how you go.
There you go.
Remember I said the auto import.
That's funny.
Let me do this real quick, define props.
I'll explain this to everyone.
So, you're aware of this, okay?
There we go.
Okay, so you'll notice here
I just recreated the bug.
That label has magically disappeared,
right?
It looks like everything is fine because
after all we've imported all of our.
What seems like our helpers and
so it should work.
This is where I think it's a little bit
of a gotcha with the Composition API and
the new script setup authoring
format is that there's actually a.
Let's call it a magic engine running
underneath that does a bunch of stuff
because we have this
setup attribute added on.
So even though you theoretically
imported these helper methods up here,
the compiler isn't there to optimize for
those things and
therefore is basically
not not being caught.
And so for those wondering,
you might have noticed that I did not
actually explicitly import those.
And that's just because when you're using
script setup, these macros like define
options, define props, define model,
they're just assumed that you're only
using it in the script setup context and
therefore you don't need to.
However, just to be clear, I think I
mentioned this just before I walked over
here that it is totally fine
if you want to be explicit for
your developers where these
things are coming from.
And this is not assumed knowledge.
It's totally fine to leave
it up here as well but
just know that it's not required
from an import perspective.
>> Speaker 4: So I had the kind of
opposite problem where I had left
the label prop off of my base text area
and it just loaded up without a label.
So the requirement of the prop
didn't trigger anything, any errors.
>> Ben Hong: Interesting.
So what you're saying,
just to make sure I understand,
is that you left off the prop definition.
>> Speaker 4: Nope, the prop definition
was there with the required, true.
When I implemented using the component
I didn't include the label as part of.
>> Ben Hong: Like the props definition.
>> Speaker 4: The props
that are passed into it.
>> Ben Hong: And then it was fine.
>> Speaker 4: And it seemed to be fine.
It just didn't render the.
It just essentially rendered nothing for
the.
>> Speaker 5: If you
didn't have script setup,
it would do that because it wouldn't know
that it's required because it doesn't
actually use it as a problem.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, but
I've got script setup, I think.
>> Ben Hong: No, I think, let's just
try to recreate this real quick.
So I'm in the weak form modal.
You were mentioning that if I
delete label like this, right?
>> Speaker 4: Yep.
>> Ben Hong: Save it.
>> Speaker 4: It did not
throw the error for me.
>> Ben Hong: Refresh, edit.
>> Speaker 4: It did this.
>> Ben Hong: So yeah, it just showed up.
This honestly might just be like
the TypeScript server might need to be
restarted.
That is something that people actually.
I guess this is actually
worth calling out.
So in the event you ever noticing
your type inferences are not
really working as expected,
there is this ability to this one.
So in your VS code, the way I do it is
command shift P Or if you do command P,
basically you're opening
your command line and.
And then again, for those who are new,
if you have this greater than symbol,
this will basically.
Rather than just like, for
example, if I don't have that and
I just type restart, it'll actually
look at files inside of my directory.
The greater than basically forces
it into command mode, essentially.
And so if you'll notice that if I do
a restart, then you'll see view, restart,
view, and Typescript servers.
Sometimes that's just what you need to
do in order to get everything working.
And so, if it's ever looking funky,
like you're like,
I definitely defined that correctly.
Why is it so yelling at me?
Yeah, try this first.
I use this quite often.
Great questions.
Thanks for calling those things out.
But yeah, this is also what's interesting
about different type checking is that
we technically have the required true as a
prop, but because that's a runtime check,
it won't actually stop
the actual build output.
So for those who are wondering, and that's
one of the reasons why I think we've
seen a lot more code bases
opt into the Typescript,
is because you theoretically want your
build to break or basically to stop you in
the event you have things that are clearly
missing that you've said is required.
Little things like that.
But again,
this is not a typescript course.
And so, we're just sprinkling
it in here and there.
Just start getting
people familiar with it.
So there we have that now.
Whoops, okay, did I do anything else?
Yeah, that was just testing and
okay, great.